lovely story coming up a 99-year old war
veteran has decided to walk 100 lengths
of his back garden he wants to raise
money for the NHS so his name is Tom Moy
he's from Bedford sure and he's aiming
to complete the challenge before his
100th birthday that's at the end of the
month after receiving treatment for skin
cancer and a broken hip let's take a
look the story
[Music]
how lovely is it to see that it's just
brilliant we can talk to Tom and his
daughter Hannah this morning good
morning to you both
you know what Charlie Charlie we were
talking to Mike earlier about Roger
Federer dressing well for the part this
is an example of people who dress up
well for the pot thank you so much for
making the effort Tom why did you decide
to do this I know your deadline is your
100th birthday why did you decide to do
it why Marvel service coming National
Health Service particularly evening
nurses after I broke my hip has been
marvelous
service and from those ago they get all
the staff and patients and the kindness
that's our God from all of them top to
bottom was absolutely amazing so anybody
who would be enough to about says we're
very pleased because they've done so
well for me and they're doing so well
for everybody else at the moment that I
think we must say I think there will be
very few people who disagree with that
sentiment Tom what many people will be
baffled by is how you are doing this
just a couple of years year-and-a-half
after having a hip operation having
broken your hip how are you finding this
challenge how are you finding a
challenge since you broke your hip how
are you managing to walk
oh so much say with difficulty but I
can't get about I'd work slowly so most
people don't want to run about to hop to
first I can manage and we will continue
to manage as long as I possibly can Tom
can I ask what's what's the daily
routine
I'm fascinated we've seen the pictures
of you you know
outside the house can you give us a
sense of the routine when do you stop
what what it one of the things that give
you a treat that keep you going
my daily routine like I guess of
quarterly item and probably listening to
logger and Charlie with they're giving
out their news and I'm always taken
aback with the appearance of both of
them looking out on the day how they can
manage to look absolutely perfect I find
it very difficult but give different
full marks both of them that they are
looking so super so early in the morning
thinking to ourselves like me you're
still managing to get up do you know
what I mean I know your dad's struggling
here can you just say a big thank you
because that's the nicest things anyone
said for ages but the question was
really more about how he's doing his day
was doing his day yes he's an early
riser and we've lived together
Tom's lived with us for 12 years and so
we have where we all rub along together
really well
he gets up lets the dogs out has his
breakfast watches you read his newspaper
and daily ritual and we make sure the
paper gets to him and and then at some
point during the day he takes himself
out for his 10 lengths of the driveway
Tom firstly I'm going to say thank you
for being so kind to us this morning
secondly I'm going to say I'm going to
ask you some words of wisdom at this
time in the morning I mean I'm just
reading all the things you've done you
in the Second World War you rose to the
rank of captain you've seen fighting in
India in Burma you were an instructor at
the armored fighting vehicle school in
bothering Tainui and regiments and how
to use tanks you have lived and you have
seen some tough times in this country
can you
you inspire people who are watching now
just reassure them that it will be fine
you understand that so you've done so
much in your life and you've say so much
adversity and challenge so what now go
would like to know is how do you how
would you advise the nation to stay calm
and carry on
for longer it's interesting to speak to
you because so often on listened to you
and a car so will it back you know the
only one we all know that favor would
you say to the nation in order to help
us all to keep calm and carry on okay so
I think so I think you see me remember
tomorrow is a good day
you can tomorrow you'll maybe find
everything but much better than today
evening today was all right and my
today's all right and then tomorrow will
sort of a bit all right and that's the
way I think of all this book to see
tomorrow will be a good day hmm I'm
loving that
I'm just getting gonna let that positive
sentiment sit out there because it's
what you must be very proud and and I
wish you well with it how long have you
got just just take us through how long
is this gonna take how much longer how
many more laps are there to do very
quickly if there's only started on
Sunday lost something at the lovely
weather and he started to walk so we
just developed this idea that we could
raise money for the NHS and he's doing
ten laps a day so you've done how many
lakes I've done fifty legs so far and
I'm hoping to do well the plan was to do
a hundred before my birthday but have
soda do more than that because me
because of Lee services I have
personally got from the national service
and from the super good nurses who were
so kind and patient
but I've always found them to be like
that wherever I've gone I had the same
beautiful service from all the stuff
from top to bottom I can never ever ever
complain about anything that's a faction
enough your service and good luck to the
Hmong that's why I hope the people who
contributed to this fund possibly give
them the best we can do what we should
do it's only one inspiration and
absolute inspiration and if I may
can we come back and chat to you you
know a bit further down the path and see
how you're getting on is that okay can
we link up again we'd love to do that
definitely I'm just sort of telling that
question he has until the 30th of April
so he'll be a hundred on the 30th of
April he's planning to do a hundred
that's how it all started a hundred for
his hundreds but he's smashing it in
with us but it would be really nice to
you and give you an update sort of
partway through the process
we're so thrilled so far like all the
support we've been given so thank you
all very much to everyone who supported
us well stay in touch do the halfway
thing and revenue if we're invited love
to celebrate birthday as well the
hundredth folks thank you so much and I
will be very mindful that tom is
watching and we will both I would speak
on behalf of great endeavor to stay
smart and good what a delight
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News